One of the most important aspects of my thesis project is presenting data in a succinct and appealing way. My lab has mostly utilized excel for all of its data analysis, which is not time efficient, and can occassionally be clunky. It is also very easy to make simple mistakes and have entire columns or rows be affected. Although .csv files can be opened by excel, I have learned from this class and from Practical R that there are much more effecient ways to import and interact with these types of files. 

My project will demonstrate my ability to import data from experiments I have already performed where videos were recorded of macrophages moving on different substrates without a chemotactic cue. Their velocities and persistence were calculated by an ImageJ plugin, "Chemotaxis tool." I will the proceed to add additional labels to the resulting data table, format it as necessary, and add informative elements to graphs comparing these factors between macrophages on different ECM concentrations/conditions. I will show a variety of graphs, which will compare the means of the velocities and persistence of the tracked cells. Our lab has noticed that macrophages plated on laminin tend to move faster (higher V) and less persistently (lower d/T value, meaning the cells move more randomly compared to a straight line). Box and whisker plots will also be helpful in analyzing the entire data set, as opposed to just one value (the means) of each group.

This project is relevent to the course because it focuses on improving my ability to generate figures for a foundational type of experiment I use day to day using python. In this way, the program created for this class could continue to be utilized by my lab. In addition, there are elements of data analysis, collection, and loading into the ImageJ program that could most likely be automated. While I do not currently have the ability to do this, I believe that with more practice I could end up saving my lab a lot of time and effort wasted on manually formatting data in excel. I will use pandas in order to format my data table, and I will also utilize its functions to make a box and whisker graph. I will use matlibplot.pyplot for additional graphs. 

Program requires import of pandas, matplotlib.pyplot, and numpy